---
layout: post
title: "Realm"
categories:
- blog
tags:
- Android

author: Prinsu Kumar
---

  ### The Realm Data Model

  At the heart of the Realm Mobile Data Plateform is the `Realm Mobile Database`, an open source,
  embedded database library optimized for mobile use. If you ahve used a data store like SQLite
  or Core Data, at first glance the Realm Mobile Database may appear to be
  an object-relational mapper (ORM) backed with a lightweight relational database.
  This is not, however, what Realm is. Instead, Realm uses a “data container” model.
  Your data objects are stored in a Realm as objects.
  This gives Realm several significant advantages.

  Realms store native objects: The Realm Mobile Database has bindings for many popular languages for mobile
  app development, including Swift, Java, Objective-C, C#, and JavaScript (using React Native).
  The objects you store in a Realm are the objects you work with in the rest of your code.
  Realms are zero-copy: Data is not copied in and out of the database to be accessed;
  you’re working with the objects directly.
  Realms implement the live objects pattern: If you have an instance of an object stored in a Realm and
  something else in your application updates that object, your instance will reflect those changes.
  Realms are cross-platform: As long as you don’t store platform-specific objects in a Realm,
  the data can be synced across operating systems.
  (In fact, the actual Realm data files can be copied between platforms.)
  Realms are offline-first: Your application works the same way with a Realm whether or not
  it’s synchronized via the Realm Object Server, and whether or not the device is online
  at any given moment. When connectivity is available, changes will be synchronized transparently.
  Lastly, Realms are ACID-compliant.

  The concepts being discussed are cross-platform; simple examples will be given in Swift.
  Consult the documentation section for your preferred binding for examples in your language.

  ### Realms

  A `Realm` is an instance of a Realm Mobile database container. Realms can be local or synchronized.
  A synchronized Realm uses the Realm Object Server to transparently synchronize its contents with other
  devices. While your application continues working with a synchronized Realm as if it's a local file,
  the data in that Realm might be updated by any device with write access to that
  Realm–so the Realm could represent a channel in a chat application, for instance,
  being updated by any user talking in that channel.

  A Realm is not a single application-wide database: While an application generally only uses one SQL database,
  an application often uses multiples Realms to organize data more efficiently,
  or to “silo” data for access control purposes.
  A Realm is not a table: Tables typically only store one kind of information: user records, email messages,
  and so on. But a Realm can contain multiple kinds of objects.
  A Realm is not a schemaless document store: Because object properties are analogous to key/value pairs,
  it’s easy to think of a Realm as a document store, but objects in a Realm have defined
  schemas that support giving values defaults or marking them as required or optional.

  The hypothetical chat application above might use one synchronized Realm for public chats,
  another synchronized Realm storing user data, yet another synchronized Realm for a “master channel list”
  that’s read-only to non-administrative users, and a local Realm for persisted settings on that device.
  Or a multi-user application on the same device could store each user’s private data in a
  user-specific Realm. Realms are lightweight, and your applicaion can be using several at one time.
  (On mobile platforms, there are some resource constraints,
  but up to a dozen open at once should be no issue.)

  ### Realm URLs


  Synchronized Realms may be public, private, or shared.
  They’re all accessed the same way—on a low level, there’s no difference between them at all.
  The difference between them is access controls, which users can read and write to them.
  The URL format may also look a little different:

  A `public` Realm can be accessed by all users. Public realms are owned by the admin user on
  the Realm Object Server, and are read-only to non-admins.
  These Realms have URLs of the form realms://server/realm-name.
  A `private` Realm is created and owned by a user, and by default only that user has
  read and write permissions for it.
  Private Realms have URLs of the form realms://server/user-id/realm-name.
  A shared Realm is a private Realm whose owner has granted other users read
  (and possibly write) access—for instance, a shopping list shared by multiple family members.
  It has the same URL format as a private Realm (realms://server/user-id/realm-name);
  the user-id segment of the path is the ID of the owning user.
  Sharing users all have their own local copies of the Realm, but there’s only one “master”
  copy synced through the Object Server.



  ### Permissions


  Realms managed by the Realm Object Server have access permissions that control whether it’s
  public, private, or shared.
  Permissions are set on each Realm using three boolean flags:

* The `mayRead` flag indicates a user can read from the Realm.
* The `mayWrite` flag indicates a user can write to the Realm.
* The `mayManage` flag indicates a user can change permissions on the Realm for other users.

  The permission flags can be set on a default basis and a per-user basis.
  When a user requests access for a Realm, first the Object Server checks
  to see if there are per-user permissions set for that user on that Realm.
  If there are no per-user permissions set for that user, the default permissions
  for the Realm are used. For example, a Realm might have mayRead set true by default,
  with individual users being granted mayWrite permissions.

  By default, a Realm is private: the owner has all permissions on it,
  and no other user has any permissions for it.

  ### Persistence and Live Objects


  There’s a few things to keep in mind when working with Realms and objects in Realms.

* Once an object has been added to a Realm (e.g., using realm.add or your language’s equivalent),
  modifying that object in your code modifies it in the Realm, too.
  You don’t need to call an update method or re-add it to the Realm to persist your changes.
  They’ll be updated correctly.

* This is true for sychronized Realms, too—there’s nothing you need to do to “push” changes
  up to the Object Server.
  Modify the object, and when your device has network access,
  changes will be propagated up to the server and to any other Realm clients that are
  synchronizing with those Realms.

 ### Primary Keys


 While Realm doesn’t have foreign keys, it does support primary key properties on Realm objects.
 Declaring one of the properties on a model class to be a primary key enforces uniqueness:
 only one object of that class with the same primary key can be added to a Realm.
 Primary keys are also implicit indexes: querying an object on its primary key is extremely efficient.


### The Realm Mobile plateform


The Realm Mobile Plateform is a next-generation data layer for applications.
Realm is reactive, concurrent, and lightweight, allowing you  to work with live, native objects.

Realm Java enables you to efficiently write your app's model layer in a safe, persisted and fast way.

### Annotations

@Index: will add a search index to the field. This will make insert slower and the data file larger but
queries will be faster.
So it's recommended to only add index when optimizing specific situations for read performance.

@PrimaryKey: You can use PrimaryKey Annotation to create a field PrimaryKey.
It can be String, Integer or any data type.
Using a String field as a PrimaryKey implies that the field is indexed.
Using primary keys makes it possible to use the `copyTORealmOrUpdate()` method.
Using primay key it will find for an existing object and update it if one is found, if none is found,
it will create a new object instead.
Calling `copyTORealmOrUpdate()` Without PrimaryKey will throw an exception.

@Ignore: This annotation implies that a field should not be persisted to the disk.
Ignored fields are useful if your input contains more fields than your model, and you don't wish to have
many special cases for handling these unused data fields.
'static' and 'transient' fields are ignored by default and do not need the '@Ignore' annotation.

@required: It tells realm to enforce checks that disallow null values.


### Stepwise guidelines for Realm implementation
Step 1: Add the class path dependency to the project level build.gradle file.

 dependencies {
        classpath "io.realm:realm-gradle-plugin:3.5.0"
    }

Step 2: Apply the realm-android plugin to the top of the application level build.gradle file.

apply plugin: 'realm-android'

Step 3: Then Initialize Realm.init(this) in MyApplication class.

public class MyApplication extends Application {
  @Override
  public void onCreate() {
    super.onCreate();
    Realm.init(this);
  }
}
Step 4: Then add your MyApplication class in manifest.
<application
  android:name=".MyApplication"
  ...
/>

// Define you model class by extending RealmObject
public class Dog extends RealmObject {
    private String name;
    private int age;

    // ... Generated getters and setters ...
}

public class Person extends RealmObject {
    @PrimaryKey
    private long id;
    private String name;
    private RealmList<Dog> dogs; // Declare one-to-many relationships

    // ... Generated getters and setters ...
}

// Use them like regular java objects
Dog dog = new Dog();
dog.setName("Rex");
dog.setAge(1);

// Initialize Realm
Realm.init(context);

// Get a Realm instance for this thread
Realm realm = Realm.getDefaultInstance();

// Query Realm for all dogs younger than 2 years old
final RealmResults<Dog> puppies = realm.where(Dog.class).lessThan("age", 2).findAll();
puppies.size(); // => 0 because no dogs have been added to the Realm yet

// Persist your data in a transaction
realm.beginTransaction();
final Dog managedDog = realm.copyToRealm(dog); // Persist unmanaged objects
Person person = realm.createObject(Person.class); // Create managed objects directly
person.getDogs().add(managedDog);
realm.commitTransaction();
